README.md, before:

# ide-purescript package for VS Code

This package provides editor support for PureScript projects in Visual Studio Code, based on the
 [PureScript language server](https://github.com/nwolverson/purescript-language-server).

Features:

- [x] [Build and error reporting](#build-and-error-reporting)
- [x] Quick-fix support for certain warnings
- [x] [Autocompletion](#autocomplete)
- [x] [Type info tooltips](#tooltips)
- [x] [Go to symbol](#go-to-symbol)
- [x] [Go to definition](#go-to-definition)
- [x] [Case split](#case-split)
- [x] [Add clause](#add-clause)
- [x] [Pursuit lookup](#pursuit-lookup)
- [x] [PSCI](#psci)
- [x] Formatting (via `purty`)

The extension [language-purescript](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items/nwolverson.language-purescript) provides basic syntax highlighting support - it is required but should be installed automatically as a dependency. This package will start on opening a `.purs` file, and automatically trigger a rebuild on saving a `.purs` file.

See [troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) in case of issues.

## Installation and General Use

This package makes use of the [`purs ide server`](https://github.com/purescript/purescript/tree/master/psc-ide) (previously `psc-ide`) for most functionality, with `purs compile` (by default via `spago`) for the explicit
build command. All this is via a Language Server Protocol implementation, [purescript-language-server](https://github.com/nwolverson/purescript-language-server). Multi-root workspaces should be supported via a multiple language server approach.

This package will launch a `purescript-language-server` process, which will automatically (but this is configurable) start `purs ide server` in your project directory and kill it when closing. Start/stop and restart commands are provided for the IDE server in case required (eg after changing config or updating compiler version).

Functionality provided by the IDE server won't work until you build your project. This can either be via the built-in
build command, or via an external tool - but if you do build externally, you should be sure to `Restart/Reconnect purs IDE server` (accessed through `CTRL+SHIFT+P`/`CMD+SHIFT+P`) afterwards, or the IDE server will not be able to pick up any changes.

You can configure building with `pulp` (optionally with `psc-package`) or `spago` by following the configuration steps below, after which you should also `Restart/Reconnect purs IDE server`.

### With Spago (default)

`PureScript: Build` command will build your project using the command line `spago build --purs-args --json-errors`.

Note that prior to spago version `0.10.0.0`, `--` was used to separate purs args at the end of the command line.

For `spago` with `psc-package`, add the following configuration to your `settings.json`:
```
{
  "purescript.addSpagoSources": true,
  "purescript.addNpmPath": true,
  "purescript.buildCommand": "spago build --purs-args --json-errors"
}
```

### With Pulp

`PureScript: Build` command will build your project using the command line `pulp build -- --json-errors`.
Version 0.8.0+ of the PureScript compiler is required, as well as version 10.0.0 of `pulp` (with earlier versions remove `--`).

For `pulp` with `psc-package`, add the following configuration to your `settings.json`:
```
{
  "purescript.addNpmPath": true,
  "purescript.buildCommand": "pulp --psc-package build -- --json-errors"
}
```


### Suggested extensions

See [input-assist](https://github.com/darinmorrison/vscode-input-assist) for Unicode input assistance
on autocomplete which is known to work with this extension, alternatively [unicode-latex](https://github.com/ojsheikh/unicode-latex)
which offers similar LaTeX based input vi a lookup command.

### Key bindings

The only key binding supplied out of the box is Shift+Ctrl+B (or Shift+Cmd+B) for the full "Build" command. Although this is only enabled inside PureScript-language text editors, it does conflict with the built-in Build command. This can be edited, and other keybinds added, in the VS Code Keyboard Shortcuts preferences.

The following default vscode bindings are helpful for processing build errors:
* `F8` cycles through errors.
* `CTRL + .` or `CMD + .` shows suggested fixes. The compiler sometimes provides these suggestions.

We will suggest you to add keyboard bindings for commands that you use frequently, which you can do through the menu item `File > Properties > Keyboard Shortcuts`.

### Access to commands

To see all the commands provided by this package,
locate the `View > Command palette` in menu and type 'purescript'.
The contents vary but you'll get something like this.

![command-menu](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1215420/89945576-3ab68a00-dc2a-11ea-9486-93db4ef2741a.png)

## Build and error reporting

After you've added `settings.json` for your build system,
Shift+Ctrl+B builds it.
if you are not sure which `settings.json` it is, pick the Spago -one.

## Autocomplete

Provided from [`purs ide server`](https://github.com/purescript/purescript/tree/master/psc-ide). Make sure your project is built first.

Completions will be sourced from modules imported in the current file.

## Tooltips

Hovering over an identifier will show a tooltip with its type. Over a qualifier of a qualified identifier it will show the associated module name.

This feature disregards a context where the word appears,
which means you will get some false positives
(eg doesn't see local definitions, just the globals that should be visible in a given module).

 ![demonstration](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1215420/99907514-cf2e8f00-2ce5-11eb-87e0-764b4d333c06.gif)

## Go to symbol

'Go to symbol' locates definition of a symbol by its name.

 ![demonstration](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1215420/99907511-cb027180-2ce5-11eb-9fa1-4ee5db77ff44.gif)

## Go to definition

Hyperclick goto-definition functionality is supported. This is available with `purs` version
0.9.2 and above, and like tooltips/autocomplete works on identifiers bound at the top level.

In case source positions are not up to date, they may not be updated on rebuild, try rebuilding or restarting psc-ide server.

 ![demonstration](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1215420/99907507-c76eea80-2ce5-11eb-8528-44c965e4abb6.gif)

## Case split

The case split expands the case under the cursor.
It allows you to auto-complete large case clauses.

 ![demonstration](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1215420/99907505-c211a000-2ce5-11eb-98f3-f7955b36f889.gif)

## Add clause

The add clause reads the type declaration under the cursor
and inserts an empty template.

 ![demonstration](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1215420/99907495-b58d4780-2ce5-11eb-8fa4-4d3f6f402560.gif)

## Pursuit lookup

Commands "Search Pursuit" and "Search Pursuit Modules" are available to search for identifiers or modules/packages on Pursuit.

## PSCI

No particular support. Suggest you open a PSCI in the integrated terminal.

## Troubleshooting

Generally the Output pane ("IDE PureScript" option in the dropdown) may give useful information if something is going wrong. Useful concepts:

### Rebuilding

To ensure the latest information is available to the Language Server, rebuilding may be required. This can either be the "Build Command" in VS Code, or an external build followed by "Restart/Reconnect purs IDE server".

### Common errors

#### Module not found

This normally means either the code is not built, or there is a version mismatch. To rebuild, see above. 

In some cases your build process and VS Code may be hitting different purs versions. The VS Code extension/language server will find purs in your PATH, but that includes the npm local path if the corresponding option is set, which may differ from an external build process. You may need to launch `code` from a terminal containing the correct `PATH`.

Check the "Output" pane, at the very top after the Language Server starts it will list out the purs binary being used, you can check it's the one you expect. 

## Development

To develop (rather than use) this extension, see [the instructions](https://github.com/nwolverson/purescript-language-server/blob/master/README.md#development) in `purescript-language-server`.

Commit message:

Watcher exclude suggestion in readme

README.md, after:

# ide-purescript package for VS Code

This package provides editor support for PureScript projects in Visual Studio Code, based on the
 [PureScript language server](https://github.com/nwolverson/purescript-language-server).

Features:

- [x] [Build and error reporting](#build-and-error-reporting)
- [x] Quick-fix support for certain warnings
- [x] [Autocompletion](#autocomplete)
- [x] [Type info tooltips](#tooltips)
- [x] [Go to symbol](#go-to-symbol)
- [x] [Go to definition](#go-to-definition)
- [x] [Case split](#case-split)
- [x] [Add clause](#add-clause)
- [x] [Pursuit lookup](#pursuit-lookup)
- [x] [PSCI](#psci)
- [x] Formatting (via `purty`)

The extension [language-purescript](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items/nwolverson.language-purescript) provides basic syntax highlighting support - it is required but should be installed automatically as a dependency. This package will start on opening a `.purs` file, and automatically trigger a rebuild on saving a `.purs` file.

See [troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) in case of issues.

## Installation and General Use

This package makes use of the [`purs ide server`](https://github.com/purescript/purescript/tree/master/psc-ide) (previously `psc-ide`) for most functionality, with `purs compile` (by default via `spago`) for the explicit
build command. All this is via a Language Server Protocol implementation, [purescript-language-server](https://github.com/nwolverson/purescript-language-server). Multi-root workspaces should be supported via a multiple language server approach.

This package will launch a `purescript-language-server` process, which will automatically (but this is configurable) start `purs ide server` in your project directory and kill it when closing. Start/stop and restart commands are provided for the IDE server in case required (eg after changing config or updating compiler version).

Functionality provided by the IDE server won't work until you build your project. This can either be via the built-in
build command, or via an external tool - but if you do build externally, you should be sure to `Restart/Reconnect purs IDE server` (accessed through `CTRL+SHIFT+P`/`CMD+SHIFT+P`) afterwards, or the IDE server will not be able to pick up any changes.

You can configure building with `pulp` (optionally with `psc-package`) or `spago` by following the configuration steps below, after which you should also `Restart/Reconnect purs IDE server`.

### With Spago (default)

`PureScript: Build` command will build your project using the command line `spago build --purs-args --json-errors`.

Note that prior to spago version `0.10.0.0`, `--` was used to separate purs args at the end of the command line.

For `spago` with `psc-package`, add the following configuration to your `settings.json`:
```
{
  "purescript.addSpagoSources": true,
  "purescript.addNpmPath": true,
  "purescript.buildCommand": "spago build --purs-args --json-errors"
}
```

### With Pulp

`PureScript: Build` command will build your project using the command line `pulp build -- --json-errors`.
Version 0.8.0+ of the PureScript compiler is required, as well as version 10.0.0 of `pulp` (with earlier versions remove `--`).

For `pulp` with `psc-package`, add the following configuration to your `settings.json`:
```
{
  "purescript.addNpmPath": true,
  "purescript.buildCommand": "pulp --psc-package build -- --json-errors"
}
```


### Suggested extensions

See [input-assist](https://github.com/darinmorrison/vscode-input-assist) for Unicode input assistance
on autocomplete which is known to work with this extension, alternatively [unicode-latex](https://github.com/ojsheikh/unicode-latex)
which offers similar LaTeX based input vi a lookup command.

### Suggested configuration

Watching directories like `.spago`, `output` can be slow and on occasion cause issues. Consider also `files.exclude` and `search.exclude`.

```
    "files.watcherExclude": {
       "**/.spago/**": true
    }
```

### Key bindings

The only key binding supplied out of the box is Shift+Ctrl+B (or Shift+Cmd+B) for the full "Build" command. Although this is only enabled inside PureScript-language text editors, it does conflict with the built-in Build command. This can be edited, and other keybinds added, in the VS Code Keyboard Shortcuts preferences.

The following default vscode bindings are helpful for processing build errors:
* `F8` cycles through errors.
* `CTRL + .` or `CMD + .` shows suggested fixes. The compiler sometimes provides these suggestions.

We will suggest you to add keyboard bindings for commands that you use frequently, which you can do through the menu item `File > Properties > Keyboard Shortcuts`.

### Access to commands

To see all the commands provided by this package,
locate the `View > Command palette` in menu and type 'purescript'.
The contents vary but you'll get something like this.

![command-menu](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1215420/89945576-3ab68a00-dc2a-11ea-9486-93db4ef2741a.png)

## Build and error reporting

After you've added `settings.json` for your build system,
Shift+Ctrl+B builds it.
if you are not sure which `settings.json` it is, pick the Spago -one.

## Autocomplete

Provided from [`purs ide server`](https://github.com/purescript/purescript/tree/master/psc-ide). Make sure your project is built first.

Completions will be sourced from modules imported in the current file.

## Tooltips

Hovering over an identifier will show a tooltip with its type. Over a qualifier of a qualified identifier it will show the associated module name.

This feature disregards a context where the word appears,
which means you will get some false positives
(eg doesn't see local definitions, just the globals that should be visible in a given module).

 ![demonstration](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1215420/99907514-cf2e8f00-2ce5-11eb-87e0-764b4d333c06.gif)

## Go to symbol

'Go to symbol' locates definition of a symbol by its name.

 ![demonstration](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1215420/99907511-cb027180-2ce5-11eb-9fa1-4ee5db77ff44.gif)

## Go to definition

Hyperclick goto-definition functionality is supported. This is available with `purs` version
0.9.2 and above, and like tooltips/autocomplete works on identifiers bound at the top level.

In case source positions are not up to date, they may not be updated on rebuild, try rebuilding or restarting psc-ide server.

 ![demonstration](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1215420/99907507-c76eea80-2ce5-11eb-8528-44c965e4abb6.gif)

## Case split

The case split expands the case under the cursor.
It allows you to auto-complete large case clauses.

 ![demonstration](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1215420/99907505-c211a000-2ce5-11eb-98f3-f7955b36f889.gif)

## Add clause

The add clause reads the type declaration under the cursor
and inserts an empty template.

 ![demonstration](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1215420/99907495-b58d4780-2ce5-11eb-8fa4-4d3f6f402560.gif)

## Pursuit lookup

Commands "Search Pursuit" and "Search Pursuit Modules" are available to search for identifiers or modules/packages on Pursuit.

## PSCI

No particular support. Suggest you open a PSCI in the integrated terminal.

## Troubleshooting

Generally the Output pane ("IDE PureScript" option in the dropdown) may give useful information if something is going wrong. Useful concepts:

### Rebuilding

To ensure the latest information is available to the Language Server, rebuilding may be required. This can either be the "Build Command" in VS Code, or an external build followed by "Restart/Reconnect purs IDE server".

### Common errors

#### Module not found

This normally means either the code is not built, or there is a version mismatch. To rebuild, see above. 

In some cases your build process and VS Code may be hitting different purs versions. The VS Code extension/language server will find purs in your PATH, but that includes the npm local path if the corresponding option is set, which may differ from an external build process. You may need to launch `code` from a terminal containing the correct `PATH`.

Check the "Output" pane, at the very top after the Language Server starts it will list out the purs binary being used, you can check it's the one you expect. 

## Development

To develop (rather than use) this extension, see [the instructions](https://github.com/nwolverson/purescript-language-server/blob/master/README.md#development) in `purescript-language-server`.
